---
title: Scripts & Tasks
description: 'Development scripts and Gulp tasks'
category: 'Getting started'
---

## Scripts

Bricks comes with some predefined scripts, which are handy aliases to pre-configured Gulp serial tasks. **Yarn** is the preferred way to run scripts, but it is also possible to run them with plain **npm**.
### dev

<code-group>

<code-block label="Yarn" active> 

```bash
yarn dev
```
</code-block>

<code-block label="npm"> 

```bash
npm run dev
```

</code-block>

</code-group>

This script compiles all resources for a development environment (it uses `NODE_ENV=development` value). It is also run as a post-install script after the initial installation.

### watch

<code-group>

<code-block label="Yarn" active> 

```bash
yarn watch
```
</code-block>

<code-block label="npm"> 

```bash
npm run watch
```

</code-block>

</code-group>

This script starts both [Gulp watcher](https://gulpjs.com/docs/en/getting-started/watching-files/) and [BrowserSync](https://www.browsersync.io/), to automatically compile modified resources on-the-fly and inject them in your browser, during local development (like **dev**, it uses `NODE_ENV=development` value).
### build

<code-group>

<code-block label="Yarn" active> 

```bash
yarn build
```
</code-block>

<code-block label="npm"> 

```bash
npm run build
```

</code-block>

</code-group>

This script compiles all resources for a production environment (it uses `NODE_ENV=production` value). It performs minification and tree-shaking to reduce the size of the final resource bundles.

## Tasks

Scripts described above should be sufficient in most cases, but if needed, Gulp is configured to expose indivudual sub-task that can be run separately, to quickly recompile a single resource type. When running tasks this way `NODE_ENV=development` is used, so resources won't be optimized for production.

These sub-tasks are not defined within `package.json`, and it is advised to install [gulp-cli](https://github.com/gulpjs/gulp-cli) globally to easily use them (just run `npm install -g gulp-cli`)

### Css

```bash
gulp css
```

Compiles source Sass files into final CSS (more details on <nuxt-link to="/css">CSS</nuxt-link> page).

### JavaScript

```bash
gulp js
```

Compiles source JavaScript files into final bundles (more details on <nuxt-link to="/javascript">JavaScript</nuxt-link> page).

### Images

```bash
gulp img
```

Optimizes source image files (more details on <nuxt-link to="/images">images</nuxt-link> page).

### Fonts

```bash
gulp fonts
```

Convert source font files into optimized web formats (more details on <nuxt-link to="/fonts">fonts</nuxt-link> page).

### Icons

```bash
gulp icons
```

Copies source **Font Awesome** JavaScript file into `./dist` folder. Since it will be optimized only for production, running this task individually has no practical use (more details on <nuxt-link to="/icons">icons</nuxt-link> page).

### Localization

```bash
gulp pot
```

Scans PHP files for [localization functions](https://developer.wordpress.org/apis/handbook/internationalization/internationalization-functions/) and writes a `.pot` template file (more details on <nuxt-link to="/localization">localization</nuxt-link> page).